---
layout: post
title: It's Official!  My days with DCYF are numbered.
date: '2013-12-17T02:04:37-08:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://jwrobes.tumblr.com/post/70273089343/its-official-my-days-with-dcyf-are-numbered
---
So eight years.  Eight years and a little extra sugar on top.  I told my boss Laura, and her (and my boss too) Maria, the Director of the Department, that my time is up.  I’ve been holding it in for awhile.  I’ve told a few friends, and most recently let it slip to a coworker that I maybe shouldn’t have.  You know you shouldn’t tell something to someone when you feel compelled to ask them several times after to assure you that they won’t tell anyone else.
So how did it go?  It went well.  There was no jaw dropping surprise.  No wailing, no crying.  Instead they were both excited for me.  And they added that I was paving the way for them to leave government too.  I find it slightly disconcerting that the two leaders of our department fantasize about the day when they can leave the government.  I understand the dream.  And personally I understand why each would want to.  But none the less they are the leaders of the department, and if deep down they hold that flame going, that can’t not show in subtle ways in everything they do.  But that’s another topic all together.
A few things that I will close this with.  The director did say that I had left my “imprint” on the department and that I made some lasting changes.  I could only hear this so much.  I’m not comfortable with accepting that reality even while I set out do just that.  I started this year long full time gig with the department with the hopes of putting in place some of the lessons I learned in my time there.  And I think I achieved that.  Whether it will live on past me of course is the big question.  I think I need to really focus on developing the systems and recording the decisions made so that after I’m gone there will be something to keep those changes alive.
DCYF, I thank you.  And you had me for a long good time.  I gave you my all for a lot of that time.  Now it’s time to move on.  Maybe we’ll meet again in another life.  Maybe I’ll revolutionize government policy by creating better systems for tracking data and outcomes for children and youth.  We shall see.
As for the program.  The work has started.  It’s here and it’s real.  This week by Sunday I must complete several challenges, I must participate in my first two pair coding sessions, where I pair up with someone online to actually write and refactor code together.  I’m nervous about this obviously.  All the usual suspects of self doubt and wanting to look good start to hum in my ears.  But I didn’t delay.  I reached out to both of my pair partners to try and set something up.  
Tonight I realized that if I’m going to make the most of this whole opportunity I need to charge hard at any little fear.  And I need to trust and act on my intuition. Today it said I should doing something fun to build our little cohort’s tribal identify.  I should make fiery skipper t-shirts or pins or hats, or get people together.  I want to be someone that brings us together.  And not just in my head, in real life!  
So Fiery Skipper Led Pins!  What do you think?  
Fire away!
