---
layout: post
title: Unlearning the habits of school!
date: '2013-12-31T01:37:15-08:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://jwrobes.tumblr.com/post/71725618967/unlearning-the-habits-of-school
---
I’m two weeks into the Phase 0 of Dev Bootcamp.  Of course as soon as the work started coming in I got sick as a dog.  Or rather, I got sick with the flu.  What does sick as a dog even mean?  Dogs in general are pretty healthy. 
So I flew out to Colorado with my wife to have Christmas with her family.  I don’t get out there very often, so it was disappointing to get sick enough where I spent two of the 5 days in bed, and two of the others getting out of the house only with ample support of various pain medications.  
And all the while I was trying to push through the coding challenges of the week.  I almost lived out one of my fears and nearly missed by first Guide Pairing Session, waking up from a feverish sweat just in time, to log on and have my first formal interaction with one of the Dev coaches, as hey guided my pair and I through a coding challenge.  It went well, and I was able to muster the energy to work well with my fellow boot-camper as we read through a bunch of really messy code and then talked through how we would improve upon it.
Another amazing little gift was squeezing in an special little visit to see my college buddy Tony Saltzman, who was out visiting his in-laws in Colorado as well.  I got to meet James, his three month old son.  Can’t say I was prepared for the in person reality of Tony holding his baby son.  Was quite special.  James and I got along famously.  He is all that Tony’s son should be and everyone says he looks just like Tony, though I can never see those things.  To me he is just two big spirit filled eyes in which you can stare directly into the center of the universe and have the universe stare right back at you.
We flew back Xmas day to colorado and I was supposed to return to work on Thursday.  But I was too sick to do so, and stayed home and tried to plow through the rest of the coding challenges that were due Sunday.  It took me all the way to Sunday to complete them.  This was a bit unnerving.  I’m not sure if my flu addled head slowed me down, if I went way off track, or it’s just going to be this hard.  But I’m not always going to have four full days at home to complete challenges like I did last week.  So something has to give.
And this brings me one of my many insights of the day.  This one came from the very amazing Natasha, who I read about in the article about these Bootcamps just two weeks ago.  She was the success story from Dev Bootcamp.  She got hired out of the second graduating class about a year ago, and has gone on to do well.  So I found her online, sent her an email and set up a lunch.  
She’s pretty amazing.  It’s easy to see why she was hired by two companies directly out of the program.  And why she’s on her way to starting at a third shortly.  She gave me a ton of advice and I’ll end this post one of the big takeaways from our meeting.
So in my first two weeks of challenges, I have noticed a burning desire to start them, complete them, check them off, and basically prove to myself that I can do them.  And by do them, I mean write the code that passes the test and achieves the goal of the challenge. 
It’s a bit hard wired into me.  And you know what, I have to redo some of this wiring.  It’s no mystery why it’s there.  I think our education system emphasizes getting the right answer, completing the task, checking of the challenge and moving on to the next.  I get a little ego boost.  I get a little dose of relief when I see that my code passes all the tests with green and I can say, okay, I did it! I’m not stupid.  
But this is not the point.  
The challenges are not about just completing them.  This is a about learning.  This is about being a beginner.  And the great thing about being a beginner is that I don’t have a bunch of bad habits to unlearn.  I can learn to do things the right way.  I can set up good patterns.  And from what I’m understanding, coding is not about getting the program to work.  
It’s about writing a program that is easily understood, that others can read, that you can read six months later and not have to spend days deciphering your own work.  This is the goal.  It’s not just to get it so it runs.  And especially with these challenges, where the point it learn a concept, to get a gold star by finishing it fast or (hush) even on time!
So I do have a tendency to do things this way.  I will rush through to get to completion.  But this is my chance to do it differently. I will start with some good habits.  I want to do things according best practices.  And if it means I take longer, or I can’t complete something on time.  So be it.  This is my education and so I need to make sure it serves me.
So thank you Natasha.  I will be slowing down.  I will be spending time on my comments.  I will take time on naming my variables.  I will take time on making sure that I don’t just rush through things to get them done.  Getting them done is not the point.
In life there are no grades there is only learning.
