---
layout: post
title: The Intro, the Article and my first Code Pairing Session
date: '2013-12-19T20:02:00-08:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://jwrobes.tumblr.com/post/70538499505/the-intro-the-article-and-my-first-code-pairing
---
So the last 48 hours were a big one in the dev bootcamp process.  I had my first intro question session over a google hangout.  Met my accountability team and then got to ask a bunch of questions to our cohort coordinator.  Lastly, I participated in my first code pairing experience.
And in the middle of it my coworker shared an article warning against the inflated expectations of people like me entering this Developer Bootcamps expecting to come out the gate with 6 figure salaries even though they have only weeks of experience.
So how do I feel about all this?  Well in short, still good.  The intro session was helpful, though I did dominate the whole thing by asking about 12 questions when everyone else asked 1 or 2 max.  And I’ll be honest, I do intend to use this entire opportunity to not hold back.  If I have questions, I’m going to ask them.  I also see this as a safe testing ground for practicing bringing more of myself into my work life.  I plan on inviting people to practice mediation with me, work out, maybe organize some shared food thing to help build community.  I want to use this experience not as just a way to learn code, but a way to be more me.
As for the code pairing session.  That was awesome.  I was nervous about doing it.  There is something very vulnerable about working out problems with someone, revealing your thought process, what you know and what you don’t.  I am well aware that I am more comfortable with hiding on my own until I can figure something out and then showing up all ready to go.  So this is way this code pairing session was exciting to me and why I’m excited to really push that boundary and get comfortable with this.  This is going to be a big part of the growth process for me.
Now for the article.  Well.  I’m not going to lie.  It freaked me out a little.  Not a lot, just a little.  I don’t have any illusions I’m going to come out of this with a six figure salary handed to me.  That’s not why I’m doing this.  I’m prepared to take a pay cut in the next job though hopefully I won’t need to.  I just want to acknowledge that this is a brand new thing, these coding boot camps.  And so it’s all a bit lost in the unknown.  Am I unwisely spending my money on something chasing an unrealistic thing?  Am I being seduced by big promises and slick marketing?  I guess ultimately I don’t know for sure.  
What I do know is that there is no way I will be able to learn all that I’m going to learn in 9 weeks on my own.  And that what I learn will be undeniably a good start into a field that I’m excited about entering.  I’m ready for a change in my career.  I enjoy the coding.  I really do.  I like geeking out over this stuff.  And I’m all about the focus on personal growth in addition to skill building that seems at the heart of Dev Bootcamp in particular.  So is it a risk?  Maybe.  But that depends on what I’m expecting, and since I’m expecting to learn a shit and be challenged.  I don’t think it’s a risk at all.  
Here’s the article.  Please read and let me know what you think.
http://www.fastcompany.com/3023456/become-an-ios-developer-in-8-weeks-the-truth-about-hack-schools
