---
layout: post
title: Posting is harder than it looks
date: '2014-01-25T01:38:30-08:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://jwrobes.tumblr.com/post/74467330702/posting-is-harder-than-it-looks
---
So my last true post was January 1st and I chose not to share it.  This is because it was too honest.  Maybe I’ll share it later.  
Discovering that posting regularly is tougher than normally, and since for the last 3+ weeks I’ve just barely got through all the challenges for each week I’ve managed to put this off day after day.  But tonight, it’s Friday, I’m sitting out in the cold on our back porch while my wife and her friends hang out and am feeling exceptionally dedicated, and therefore am returning to put out a little blog post and get back in the habit.
10 things I’ve learned thus far about myself in the prep that are not about code.
I enjoy getting lost in the concepts and I when I get a challenge or run into a concept that piques my curiosity I can’t help but jump into a rabbit hole of learning.  This can take hours.  
I need to improve my typing skills.  After years of typing out stuff for screenplays I have a ton of sloppy habits because I simply relied on spell check to clean up my mistakes and when I wrote I would rather type a little gibberish than break up the flow of my typing.  This does NOT work for code and this slows me down a lot as I have to go back and do a  lot of clean up.
I’m getting better at saying no to doing everything but coding, and I enjoy having a iron-clad, unassailable reason to stay home and study.  This is one of the biggest gifts of the prep work, by having the deadlines set out for me I have a clear understanding of where my priorities need to be if I’m going to the  most out of this experience.  That all being said.  I still feel a little bad about saying no to everyone all the time.  And I know this will just get worse when the program really starts.
My strength in code pairing comes from how comfortable I am communicating my needs and listening to others.  I think years of being married to a therapist in training, and my natural listening skills really help there.  Also, I get excited by the work and I believe this also adds to my ability to be a good pair coder.
It’s hard to break the habit of comparing myself to my fellow bootcamp students.  The desire to know where I am in preparing for the program, how my skills, experience, smarts, all rank against the rest does pop up in my mind now and then.  I want to really be aware of this and not let this interfere with my learning by showing up in negative ways in how I work with my fellow campers, and getting me to speed up my learning to keep pace with those that are ahead of me at the cost of speeding through things without grasping them fully.
I want to channel more of my Hemingway and less Thomas Wolfe in my writing.  In other words.  Succinct.  Clear. Lean.  Language.
I am scared by how quickly I lose my comfort level with one set of concepts after I leave it to learn a new set of concepts.  The example is that I felt confident in Regular Expressions and then after I left it for two weeks I found myself completely blank on how to do it.  
Keeping up the connection with the bootcampers has been harder than I thought.  We connect once a week, but we haven’t meshed as a team yet.  Of course I assume this will change once we are spending all our time together.
I must be wary of the end of the night.  I find that I’ll come home from work and put a good two hours or more of coding at night and get to 9:30 or 10pm.  I’ll be pretty cashed out after the full day of work and then coding, and I’ll want to reward myself with a little down time, a little internet surfing, a little tv watching.  But I’ll be too tired for my own good and my ability to make the smart decision of simply hanging it up and going to get a good night sleep is compromised.  And I once or twice a week I stay up needlessly late and make it harder for me the next day and the rest of the week.  The answer to this could be, that after I reach this point, I just blog once and then go to bed.  We’ll see how that goes.
I love learning.  I love that this is demanding the most out of me.  I have so much more to learn before I even start to understand the ocean of unknown concepts that I’m dog paddling around in.
