---
layout: post
title: Threads in Computer Science and Ruby
description: Unraveling threads.
---

Understanding threads was a lot simpler than I anticipated.  There is much I may be missing, but the core concept of a thread isn't that complicated.

A thread is a single program being run.  If you create a little sum up all numbers program.  You run it.  It's running on a thread.  I believe it's important to compare threads to processes, in order to fully understand the concept of a thread.

A process a collection of one or more threads that all share the same memory location.  A process can have just one thread, but can have many threads that all share resources.  

Single thread vs multi thread programming in Ruby and possibly in other languages is a single thread basically runs one process after another in a blocking way.  A multi thread program can run all the process at the same time.  

Let's say you have a process that just sums up to variables as input.  But you throw a sleep function in there to slow it down for two seconds.  If you run three of this all one one thread, each one will sleep for two seconds and the final result will take 6 seconds to be produced.

If you instead create new threads for each of the summing programs, they will all run at the same time on different threads and will produce the three sums in about 2 seconds.

This is important because in some situations the results of the three different sums are independent, and so you can have them all run at the same time.  But let's say the second program is dependent on the first program, and you have them run all that same time, you are going to have variation in the result.  Maybe the second program finishes first and then your final result will be incorrect.  

It's important to understand when you want a multi-thread vs single threaded programs.  


